in this video I'm going to go through
the top 10 worst Instagram growth
strategies and I want to encourage you
to watch until the end of this video
because a lot of these strategies people
don't even recognize that they're doing
or they don't recognize the harm that
these things can be having onto your
profile some of these might sound a
little bit obvious and if they do that's
a good thing because that means that
hopefully you know to avoid these things
number one first and foremost buying
followers or buying engagement I mean I
think this is the ultimate No-No if
you're buying followers ultimately what
you're doing is buying fake profiles
you're buying Bots to follow you these
people will never become real customers
these people will never stay engaged and
these people will just make your
business look very inauthentic Brands
customers future real followers they
want to see that your followers are
actually engaged and so if you have 20
000 fake followers and you get two likes
on your post it's gonna be a big red
flag that you bought your followers
buying engagement is another huge No-No
the algorithm is constantly learning who
to show your posts to in order to get
the best engagement and if you're buying
engagement then you're filling up the
algorithm with all of these Bots and
fake accounts so then in the future the
algorithm isn't going to know who to
show your post to besides other Bots and
fake accounts number two engagement
groups engagement groups also known by
the name engagement pods are essentially
where a group of people anywhere from
five to fifty or more get together and
all agree hey let's like and comment on
each other's posts and on the surface
this sounds like a great idea you get
guaranteed engagement you get people who
are liking and commenting and you know
that you have a baseline amount of
Engagement but what actually happens is
over time people stop engaging they stop
engaging in thoughtful ways they start
leaving quick comments or they stop
liking the posts altogether and so even
though you might experience an initial
Boost after joining an engagement group
over time your likes views reach and
engagement will decrease and eventually
you'll have to leave the group which
will leave you off worse than even where
you started also the the algorithm is
really smart and it can pick up on when
you're having the same five to ten
people like and comment on your post
every single time and it stops valuing
their engagement at the same level
number three is one that I see a lot of
people doing and it's running giveaways
in order to get followers essentially
you make a post on Instagram you say hey
I'm giving away this car all you have to
do is share this with three friends and
follow me what happens from that
giveaway is that you do get a huge spike
in new followers but the problem is
they're following you because they want
to win the car and they don't actually
care about your content or what you're
posting so once the giveaway is over
either a bunch of people are going to
unfollow you and head for the door or
those people are still going to follow
you but they're not going to become
engaged followers or customers and so
either way it's going to hurt your
account in the long run number four is
buying shout outs now I'm aware of at
least one instagram coach who has a
large following who bought shout outs
this person directly told me that that's
how they grew their huge following they
bought shout outs from celebrities and
from accounts that already had a large
following and basically paid them a fee
for these accounts to go on their
Instagram stories or go on their reels
and say hey follow this person in my
opinion this is a very inauthentic
inorganic way to grow is it effective
sure like you can flood your account
with new followers because when Selena
Gomez for example is shouting you out
you're going to get a lot of new
followers from that a lot of new
eyeballs and a lot of attention but the
end of the day this is not organic
growth this is not authentic a lot of
these people are following you just
because the celebrity told them to not
because you've necessarily earned the
follow not because you've made great
content and not even necessarily because
they're interested in what you're
posting but just because someone with a
big following told them to number five
is actually illegal on Instagram which
by the way a lot of these strategies are
illegal but this one is buying accounts
it is illegal according to Instagram's
Community guidelines to purchase
profiles for no matter what reason no
matter matter how many followers that
person has no matter what they're doing
with their account even if they just
have a username that they reserved 15
years ago that they don't want to use
anymore if you are purchasing someone
else's profile that's illegal there are
some websites out there that I'm not
going to name that offer you this
service where basically people can go on
the website and say hey I have 250 000
followers who wants to buy my profile
and then based off the engagement rate
and the niche that the account is in the
value of that profile will change and
people are buying and swapping these
profiles but it's illegal it's super
inorganic and authentic and I wouldn't
recommend it number six is similar to
number four and it's shout out swaps so
the idea here is that instead of paying
you money to shout out my account I'm
going to shout out your account and then
you're gonna shout out mine basically
you're just trading massive profiles
this one isn't the worst on the list but
it's another inauthentic inorganic way
to grow something that I would not
recommend number seven is hiring any
kind of service that promises or
guarantees like likes or followers I'm
not referring to the coaches and
memberships out there who say hey we're
going to help you grow your following
we're going to help you get more views
those are different than when you go to
a service and it says pay 19 and we
guarantee a thousand followers within 24
hours because what those people are
doing is just giving you bot followers
going back to the first strategy to
avoid buying followers or engagement
some of these people disguise themselves
as Services they say hey we're an
Instagram growth service we'll help you
increase your engagement just pay us ten
dollars and we guarantee you'll get 100
likes on your next video well those 100
likes are coming from fake robot
profiles so don't trust any service that
is promising you x amount of Engagement
within 24 hours if you just pay this
small fee the eighth strategy to avoid
is follow for follow some people think
that this is part of the etiquette of
using social media or using Instagram
and it's absolutely not you do not have
to follow everyone back just because
they follow you you should only follow
the people who you want to follow in the
first place you should only follow the
people who you want to engage with who
you want to network with who you admire
who you like their content that's who
you should follow idea number nine is
follow trains remember in 2005 when
there were those forward text messages
that were going to like hundreds of
people and you would like copy and paste
the same forwarded text message and
there was like spooky things or it was
like Hey bad luck if you don't forward
this to seven people in your contacts
it's the same idea here essentially
people are creating mass-produced direct
messages and they're saying hey follow
the four people on this list then delete
the first name and add your name and
send this to your whole contact list so
essentially direct messages are getting
spread all across Instagram with random
usernames and random people saying send
this message forward this message super
inauthentic super inorganic stay away
and then the 10th and final strategy
that I would recommend avoiding on
Instagram is deleting spam fake
inauthentic or non-niche followers and
this is going to sound a little bit
weird we all have robot followers we all
have fake followers it's just the
reality of social media people estimate
that on Twitter about 15 of the users
are robots or spam accounts and these
accounts are following us for a variety
of reasons some people believe that if
you block these profiles you scroll
through your list of followers and you
one by one delete block or remove these
profiles that it will help your account
but it actually won't and that's for a
few reasons first of all if you are
taking the time to scroll through that
list and block people you're wasting
time that could be spent on creating
more content engaging with your real
followers or just building a better
community on Instagram number two if the
algorithm sees that your number of
followers is consistently dropping
because you're blocking them Instagram's
not going to reward you for that that's
assigned to Instagram that your account
is not very healthy your account is not
one that people like to see and engage
with so they're going to show your posts
to less people and the third reason why
you don't need to do that is that the
hour algorithm is smart enough to know
who to show your posts to the thought
behind this strategy is that hey if I
remove all my fake followers or I remove
all the followers who don't look like
they're perfect for my Niche then
Instagram will only show my post to the
people who are right for my Niche and my
real followers but the truth is
Instagram is already doing that the
algorithm's job is literally to show
your posts to the people who would be
most likely to engage with them so
blocking these profiles and removing
people who follow you is something
that's only going to hurt your account
in the long run and also I might add
sometimes you're going to block someone
because they look like a spammer they
look inauthentic or maybe they look like
they're wrong for your Niche and that
person was actually about to become a
customer that person was about to become
a super engaged follower and you didn't
give them the chance because you thought
their profile didn't look right so these
were the 10 things to avoid on Instagram
one thing that you should do on
Instagram is make sure to subscribe to
my YouTube channel so you can get more
information more top tips more
strategies and techniques to grow your
Instagram and make money online thanks
so much for watching